README.md, before:

#Minion

<p align="center">
	<img src="img/minion.jpg" width="50%">
</p>

Minion is a tiny WebComponent-oriented UI framework. It can be learned very fast and is good enough
for small to medium single-page applications.

Minion does not make use of the WebComponent standard for building the UI, but still the development
approach is based on breaking the Web App into independent and reusable web components. Each component
is defined as:
- An HTML template, containing plain HTML and [Mustache](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js)
	template expressions.
- An optional JavaScript Object or class. If present, several of its methods will be invoked during
	the application lifecycle: when the component is created, after it is rendered and before it is
	removed. Also, components hold data accessible to the template and can handle events triggered
	from elements it contains.

####Hello world example:
The component: hello.js in ES5
```JavaScript
	minion.component('hello', {
		init: function() {
			this.greeting = 'Hello';
		}
	});
```
The same hello.js component, in ES6
```JavaScript
	minion.component('hello', class {
		init() {
			this.greeting = 'Hello';
		}
	});
```
The template: hello.html
```HTML
	<p>{{greeting}}, world!</p>
```
A HTML page referencing the component: someOtherPage.html
```HTML
	Greeting component below:
	<hello></hello>
```
The resulting output:
```HTML
	Greeting component below:
	<p>Hello, world!</p>
```

##Component lifecycle
Components can contain other components. When Minion finds a component tag such as the above
`<hello>`, it loads and renders its HTML template, invoking the component methods in a
specific sequence. All lifecycle methods are optional, and most of them are seldom required,
with the exception of the init method:
- **init(componentNode)**: invoked immediately after the component is instantiated. This is where
	the component initializes values to be rendered by the template. A typical case is to invoke
	some remote service in order to retrieve some data from the server. If a
	[Promise](https://www.promisejs.org/) is returned, then Minion will wait for the promise
	to resolve before rendering the template. This ensures that when the template is rendered,
	all data has been properly initialized.
	The HTML node of the component (e.g. `<hello>` in the previous example) is passed as
	a jQuery object, so the component can examine its attributes and content before its template
	is rendered.
- **ready(rootNode)**: invoked after the HTML template has been fully rendered, including
	the mustache expansions and any nested components. The rendered template root element
	is passed as a jQuery object, so it can be used to perform DOM manipulations or registering
	event handlers. However, events can also be handled by the mn-click and mn-submit directives,
	so this method is seldom required.
- **done(rootNode)**: Invoked right before the component is removed from the DOM. This is where
	the component can perform any teardown if required. Notice that event listeners bound to
	elements of the template will be automatically removed by jQuery, and therefore this method
	is seldom required.

##How Minion gets a template from a component
There are several approaches for specifying the template of a component:
- Default: by using the same name for the component and template. When a component
	registers itself by invoking `minion.component('component-name', ComponentClass)`,
	Minion will load the template using AJAX from `component-name.html`.
- By defining a `templateUrl` property in the component object: Minion will load the template
	using AJAX from the URL specified in the value of that property.
- By defining a `template` property in the component object: Minion will use the property value
	as the template itself. This is useful for small and highly reusable components that make
	use of small templates.
- If a template does not require of a component, the `<mn-view template="templateUrl">` tag
	can be used.

All templates are cached, so they are loaded from the server only once.

##Event handling
Events handlers are registered by adding an `mn-click="methodName"` or `mn-submit="methodName"`
attribute to an HTML element. When the event is triggered by the HTML element containing the
attribute, methodName is invoked in the parent component(s). The handler gets passed a parameter
with the jQuery object of the element that triggered the event.
For any other event, the generic form `mn-event="event => methodName"` can be used.

####Examples:
```HTML
	<form mn-submit="save">
```
Will call the *save* method of the parent component when the form is submitted.
Notice that the method should return false to avoid the browser from posting the
form to the server.

```HTML
	<button mn-click="cancel">
```
Will call the *cancel* method of the parent component when the button is clicked.

```HTML
	<input mn-event="keyup => handleKey">
```
Will call the *handleKey* method of the parent component when the the keyup event is triggered.

##Data binding
Each component holds its own data as plain JavaScript properties, which are accessible to
the templates via the {{propertyName}} syntax.

When a component is nested inside another component, the `mn-bind` attribute can be used to
propagate data from the parent to the child component. This attribute can be used in two ways:
- **mn-bind="propertyName"**: will create `propertyName` inside the child component and copy
	the value of the same property from the parent component.
- **mn-bind="srcProp as targetProp"**: will create `targetProp` inside the child component and
	copy the value of `srcProp` from the parent component. In this case, srcProp can be a nested
	property such as `obj1.obj2.prop`.

Notice that even property values are just copied, if the property holds a JavaScript object,
its reference will be copied. This way, the child component can directly reference data held
inside the parent component.

####Examples:
```HTML
	<customer>
		<address mn-bind="address"></address>
	</customer>
```
When the address component is created, an `address` property will be created referencing
the `address` property of the customer component.

```HTML
	<customer>
		<address mn-bind="cust.addr as address"></address>
	</customer>
```
When the address component is created, an `address` property will be created referencing
the `addr` property inside the `cust` property of the customer component.


##ToDo:
### Development
- ESHint / TSLint
- Minification with proper source maps (webpack plugin is buggy)
- Set TypeScript compile target to ES6 and add Babel as a build step
	- This will enable more ES6 features
	- And maybe the Promise shim will no longer be required

### Runtime
- Properly setup Modernizr in order to support form validation shims
- Refactor 'search' views & component to flat search names
- Test refactor folders by functionality instead of component type
- NLS/multilanguage

Commit message:

More options for mn-bind

README.md, after:

#Minion

<p align="center">
	<img src="img/minion.jpg" width="50%">
</p>

Minion is a tiny WebComponent-oriented UI framework. It can be learned very fast and is good enough
for small to medium single-page applications.

Minion does not make use of the WebComponent standard for building the UI, but still the development
approach is based on breaking the Web App into independent and reusable web components. Each component
is defined as:
- An HTML template, containing plain HTML and [Mustache](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js)
	template expressions.
- An optional JavaScript Object or class. If present, several of its methods will be invoked during
	the application lifecycle: when the component is created, after it is rendered and before it is
	removed. Also, components hold data accessible to the template and can handle events triggered
	from elements it contains.

####Hello world example:
The component: hello.js in ES5
```JavaScript
	minion.component('hello', {
		init: function() {
			this.greeting = 'Hello';
		}
	});
```
The same hello.js component, in ES6
```JavaScript
	minion.component('hello', class {
		init() {
			this.greeting = 'Hello';
		}
	});
```
The template: hello.html
```HTML
	<p>{{greeting}}, world!</p>
```
A HTML page referencing the component: someOtherPage.html
```HTML
	Greeting component below:
	<hello></hello>
```
The resulting output:
```HTML
	Greeting component below:
	<p>Hello, world!</p>
```

##Component lifecycle
Components can contain other components. When Minion finds a component tag such as the above
`<hello>`, it loads and renders its HTML template, invoking the component methods in a
specific sequence. All lifecycle methods are optional, and most of them are seldom required,
with the exception of the init method:
- **init(componentNode)**: invoked immediately after the component is instantiated. This is where
	the component initializes values to be rendered by the template. A typical case is to invoke
	some remote service in order to retrieve some data from the server. If a
	[Promise](https://www.promisejs.org/) is returned, then Minion will wait for the promise
	to resolve before rendering the template. This ensures that when the template is rendered,
	all data has been properly initialized.
	The HTML node of the component (e.g. `<hello>` in the previous example) is passed as
	a jQuery object, so the component can examine its attributes and content before its template
	is rendered.
- **ready(rootNode)**: invoked after the HTML template has been fully rendered, including
	the mustache expansions and any nested components. The rendered template root element
	is passed as a jQuery object, so it can be used to perform DOM manipulations or registering
	event handlers. However, events can also be handled by the mn-click and mn-submit directives,
	so this method is seldom required.
- **done(rootNode)**: Invoked right before the component is removed from the DOM. This is where
	the component can perform any teardown if required. Notice that event listeners bound to
	elements of the template will be automatically removed by jQuery, and therefore this method
	is seldom required.

##How Minion gets a template from a component
There are several approaches for specifying the template of a component:
- Default: by using the same name for the component and template. When a component
	registers itself by invoking `minion.component('component-name', ComponentClass)`,
	Minion will load the template using AJAX from `component-name.html`.
- By defining a `templateUrl` property in the component object: Minion will load the template
	using AJAX from the URL specified in the value of that property.
- By defining a `template` property in the component object: Minion will use the property value
	as the template itself. This is useful for small and highly reusable components that make
	use of small templates.
- If a template does not require of a component, the `<mn-view template="templateUrl">` tag
	can be used.

All templates are cached, so they are loaded from the server only once.

##Event handling
Events handlers are registered by adding an `mn-click="methodName"` or `mn-submit="methodName"`
attribute to an HTML element. When the event is triggered by the HTML element containing the
attribute, methodName is invoked in the parent component(s). The handler gets passed a parameter
with the jQuery object of the element that triggered the event.
For any other event, the generic form `mn-event="event => methodName"` can be used.

####Examples:
```HTML
	<form mn-submit="save">
```
Will call the *save* method of the parent component when the form is submitted.
Notice that the method should return false to avoid the browser from posting the
form to the server.

```HTML
	<button mn-click="cancel">
```
Will call the *cancel* method of the parent component when the button is clicked.

```HTML
	<input mn-event="keyup => handleKey">
```
Will call the *handleKey* method of the parent component when the the keyup event is triggered.

##Data binding
Each component holds its own data as plain JavaScript properties, which are accessible to
the templates via the {{propertyName}} syntax.

When a component is nested inside another component, the `mn-bind` attribute can be used to
propagate data from the parent to the child component. This attribute can be used in two ways:
- **mn-bind="propertyName"**: will create `propertyName` inside the child component and copy
	the value of the same property from the parent component.
- **mn-bind="srcProp as targetProp"**: will create `targetProp` inside the child component and
	copy the value of `srcProp` from the parent component. In this case, srcProp can be a nested
	property such as `obj1.obj2.prop`.

Notice that even property values are just copied, if the property holds a JavaScript object,
its reference will be copied. This way, the child component can directly reference data held
inside the parent component.

####Examples:
```HTML
	<customer>
		<address mn-bind="address"></address>
	</customer>
```
When the address component is created, an `address` property will be created referencing
the `address` property of the customer component.

```HTML
	<customer>
		<address mn-bind="cust.addr as address"></address>
	</customer>
```
When the address component is created, an `address` property will be created referencing
the `addr` property inside the `cust` property of the customer component.

You can also pass a comma-separated list of bindings, e.g. `mn-bind="prop1, prop2"` or
`mn-bind="prop1 as altProp1, prop2"`, etc.

Finally, the `*` value can be used for binding the whole parent or child component, so that:
- `mn-bind="obj as *"` will bind all properties of the obj property in the parent component directly
	to the child component.
- `mn-bind="* as obj"` will bind all properties of the parent component to the obj property of the
	child component.
- And the rather risky `mn-bind="*"` will directly bind all properties of the parent
	component into the child component.


##ToDo:
### Development
- ESHint / TSLint
- Minification with proper source maps (webpack plugin is buggy)
- Set TypeScript compile target to ES6 and add Babel as a build step
	- This will enable more ES6 features
	- And maybe the Promise shim will no longer be required

### Runtime
- Properly setup Modernizr in order to support form validation shims
- Refactor 'search' views & component to flat search names
- Test refactor folders by functionality instead of component type
- NLS/multilanguage
